>> Mike North: So arrays.
I hinted at this going through
the solution to the last exercise.
You could have left that users
property in the account manager
as an array of anys and
I think it would have been okay.
It would just asked you to
assign it a particular type.
But the default is they work exactly
the same way as JavaScript and
this is, basically gets
an implicit any in this situation.
Adding the type constraint makes things
a lot more consistent, a lot better,
that's what this would look like, right?
Hopefully that's no surprise, it's just
the type and then square brackets.
Just remember, when you initialize those
class properties with empty arrays,
make sure you provide a type.
You will find that in this situation,
you will run into trouble.
Because the type of items
will be an array of nevers.
An array of a type that would never be
happy if you try to do something with it.
So the consequences like that,
you will error when you try to
push the number five into it.
So you would simply have to say like,
an array of numbers or
an array of any, whatever it is that you
want, but be sure you give it a type.
>> Speaker 2: A little default to nevers
and not to give you a warning or.
>> Mike North: It'll default to nevers,
and
be uncooperative if you ever start
trying to put stuff into it.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, okay.
>> Mike North: It will let you know
that there's a problem, for sure.
And that's the kind of
problem it'll give you.
It can't map five to a never.
And here's the solution,
just do something like that.
This is a good practice anyway.
And the reasoning here is,
at the time we define a class,
remember we only have, we have like,
compile time type safety here.
We don't have runtime type safety.
And until you start creating
instances of this class,
there's no way to really know exactly
what you aim to push into this.
And so at least at that moment where
you just have that array property, it's
tough to know like the orders of functions
that you're gonna call on this thing.
So that's why you end up
with that array of nevers.
Question in chat?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, he's just asking if
there's any way to set the maximum number
of array elements in TypeScript.
>> Mike North: Maximum, like on any array?
The maximum number of-
>> Speaker 3: No, just like in an array,
for instance-
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Number array.
>> Mike North: So there is a way to define
a specific number of array elements.
And that is by way of
something called tuples.
>> Speaker 3: But there is no way they
do it like a max or a minimum amount?
>> Mike North: Not that I am aware of,
I don't think so.
So tuples are an array of fixed length.
So if you had a specific size of
array that you were interested in,
you could do something like this.
You could say, and
here we're able to mix types,
we're basically saying that
this is an ordered collection.
We would say that this is
a tuple of size two, right?
There are two elements in it.
The first one must be a string,
the second one must be a number and so
we can do something like this.
And we would be absolutely fine.
So often
like when we combine these
things into a value, it's
because it's two pieces of information
that means something together, right.
And any consumers of this information
need to know what this means,
they need to expect the right
pattern coming out.
TypeScript's not gonna help you except
in terms of defining the types.
By that I mean, of course you
don't have property names here,
you've got just the zeroth
element on the first element.
And so you as a consumer need to know
you are going to receive a tuple, and
here is where in the tuple you can
look for particular pieces of data and
what that data means.
So destructured assignment works really
nicely with this where you can sort of,
you could say pluck off
the name of the dependency and
its version and you can basically unpack
the tuple really, really, easily.
Just cuz you know, like if you
have the information to use this,
you have all the information you need
to destructure this and unpack it.
>> Mike North: So if we were to create
an array of tuples like we can regardless,
is just another type.
Just as we could create
an array of numbers.
A tuple type is equally well suited for
that kind of thing.
We could push that dependency in and
everything would be fine.
We could push in something literally that,
like an array literal,
a tuple literal I guess.
That would cooperate, and
here we'd run into an error.
So the type checking works on members, of
members of the tuple within the array so
you start to see that like that structure
that checking is done recursively.
Right, it's not just like,
this is an array of arrays and
make sure that only arrays are pushed in.
It looks for that specific structure,
the elements in the correct order.
In fact if we tried to reverse these and
push the number first and
the string second,
of course it's gonna break as well.
But this is nice cuz now you can
be assured that everything in this
array is going to be of that same format.